webpack/stories/docs/adding-dependencies.stories.mdx, before:

import { Meta } from '@theforeman/stories';

<Meta
  title="Introduction|Adding dependencies"
  parameters={{
    storyWeight: 40,
  }}
/>

# Using/Adding/updating NPM dependencies

Foreman manage npm dependencies with a seperate project called `@theforeman/vendor` which responsible to deliver 3rd-party modules to foreman and its plugins.
Foreman and its plugins consumes `@theforeman/vendor` project from `npm` in development and from `rpm` in production.

`@theforeman/vendor` lives inside a monorepo together with other foreman javascript tools in a project called [`foreman-js`](https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-js)

[Read more about `@theforeman/vendor`](https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-js/tree/master/packages/vendor)

### Consuming `foreman-js` projects from source (locally)

1. Clone and install the `foreman-js` project on your local machine:

```sh
git clone git@github.com:theforeman/foreman-js.git
cd foreman-js
npm install
```

2. Link `foreman-js` to foreman, go to `foreman` folder and run:

```sh
FOREMAN_JS_LOCATION=<replace with foreman-js location> npm run foreman-js:link
```

> `FOREMAN_JS_LOCATION` default value is `../foreman-js` so if your `foreman-js` project lives there, you don't have to set this variable.

**NOTICE: running `npm install` in `foreman` will replace the linked version of `foreman-js` with the `npm` version.**

Commit message:

Fixes #30618 - remove foreman-js:link
please use the link command provided by foreman-js instead
see: https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-js

webpack/stories/docs/adding-dependencies.stories.mdx, after:

import { Meta } from '@theforeman/stories';

<Meta
  title="Introduction|Adding dependencies"
  parameters={{
    storyWeight: 40,
  }}
/>

# Using/Adding/updating NPM dependencies

Foreman manage npm dependencies with a seperate project called `@theforeman/vendor` which responsible to deliver 3rd-party modules to foreman and its plugins.
Foreman and its plugins consumes `@theforeman/vendor` project from `npm` in development and from `rpm` in production.

`@theforeman/vendor` lives inside a monorepo together with other foreman javascript tools in a project called [`foreman-js`](https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-js)

[Read more about `@theforeman/vendor`](https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-js/tree/master/packages/vendor)

### Consuming `foreman-js` projects from source (locally)

Clone, install, build and link the `foreman-js` project to foreman:

```sh
git clone git@github.com:theforeman/foreman-js.git
cd foreman-js
npm install
npm run build
npm run link -- --location ../foreman
```

To read to full documentation, please go to `foreman-js` contribution guide:
https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-js/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md

**NOTICE: You must remove `./node_modules/@theforeman` before running `npm install`.
If not, it will destroy your `foreman-js` copy.**
